Chat-Application
Chat Application: README
Overview
This is a Python-based console application that simulates a chat system with features like group chats, personal chats, user roles (admin and members), and message management.

Features
User Management

Two user roles: Admin and Member.
Admins have additional privileges such as deleting any message, adding/removing users from chats, and viewing chat history.
Members can send and delete their own messages.
Chat Management

Create group chats with multiple participants.
Create personal (one-on-one) chats.
Send, receive, and delete messages.
View chat history.
Admin Privileges

Kick users from a chat.
Add or remove users from a group chat.
Delete any message in a chat.
Message Management

Edit messages.
Delete own messages.
Broadcast messages to all participants except the sender.
Class Descriptions
1. User
Attributes:
username: The username of the user.
role: Role of the user ("admin" or "member").
Methods:
send_message: Sends a message to a chat.
receive_message: Receives a message in the chat.
delete_own_message: Deletes a message sent by the user.
2. Admin (inherits from User)
Additional Attributes:
privileges: List of privileges available to the admin.
Additional Methods:
delete_message: Deletes any message in a chat.
kick_user: Removes a user from a chat.
promote_user: Promotes a member to admin.
add_user_to_chat: Adds a user to a group chat.
remove_user_from_chat: Removes a user from a group chat.
view_chat_history: Views the entire chat history.
3. Member (inherits from User)
A simpler version of User with no additional methods.
4. Message
Attributes:
sender: The user who sent the message.
content: The text of the message.
timestamp: Time the message was sent.
5. Chat
Attributes:
chat_id: Unique identifier for the chat (e.g., group name or personal chat identifier).
participants: List of users in the chat.
messages: List of messages in the chat.
Methods:
add_message: Adds a new message to the chat.
broadcast_message: Sends the message to all participants except the sender.
remove_message: Removes a message from the chat.
view_chat_history: Returns all messages in the chat.
6. ChatRoom
Attributes:
chats: List of all chats (group and personal).
Methods:
create_group_chat: Creates a new group chat.
create_personal_chat: Creates a one-on-one chat.
get_chat: Fetches a chat by its ID.
list_chats: Lists all chat IDs.
How to Run
Ensure you have Python installed (version 3.6 or higher).

Copy the code into a Python file, e.g., chat_application.py.

Run the script using:

python chat_application.py

Follow the prompts in the console to interact with the application.

Usage
Main Menu Options
Create a Group Chat:

Enter a group chat name and participant usernames (comma-separated).
Join a Chat:

View available chats and select one to join.
Send Message to Group Chat:

Enter your username, select a chat, and type your message.
Send Message to Personal Chat:

Specify the sender and recipient usernames.
Create a personal chat if it does not exist.
View Chat History:

Choose to view group or personal chat history.
Delete Your Own Message:

View messages you have sent and delete them.
Admin: Delete Any Message:

Admins can view and delete any message in a chat.
Add User to Group Chat (Admin Only):

Admins can add new or existing users to a group chat.
Remove User from Group Chat (Admin Only):

Admins can remove participants from a group chat.
Exit:

Ends the application.
Example Scenario
Admin Thrisha creates a group chat with members Meghana and Srija.
Members send messages to the group.
Admin views the chat history and deletes an inappropriate message.
Admin adds a new member Chandu to the chat.
Member Meghana decides to delete her own message.
Notes
Usernames must be unique.
Admin privileges are limited to group chats and do not apply to personal chats.
Messages are timestamped using the current system time.
Future Improvements
Implement authentication for users.
Add a graphical user interface (GUI).
Support file sharing and multimedia messages.
Enable notifications for new messages.
